
## PDtoolkit

PDtoolkit provides collection of tools for PD rating model development
and validation.</br> Having in mind the fact that model development
process is highly iterative and repetitive, of the outmost importance
for the modelers is to have standardized and automated tools for this
purpose. The main goal of this package is to cover the most common steps
of PD model development. As additional contribution author attempted to
add some functionalities which at the moment of package developemt were
not presented in `R` package ecosystem for area of credit risk models.
Procedures available are those that refer to univariate, bivariate,
multivariate analysis and calibration. </br> Along with accompanied
`monobin` and `monobinShiny` packages, `PDtoolkit` provides functions
which are suitable for different data transformation and modeling tasks
such as: imputations, monotonic binning of numeric risk factors, binning
of categorical risk factors, weights of evidence (WoE) and information
value (IV) calculations, WoE coding (replacement of risk factors
modalities with WoE values), risk factor clustering, area under curve
(AUC) calculation and others.</br> Beside mentioned features, set of
validation functions are available (homogeneity, heterogeneity as well
as discriminatory and predictive model ability testing on application
portfolio).

Following case study shows usage of `PDtoolkit` package. It is based on
publicaly available German credit data set which is available and
downloaded from this
[link](https://online.stat.psu.edu/stat857/node/215/), but also
distributed along with `PDtoolkit` package under the data frame `loans`.

First, we will import the libraries needed for this examples.

``` r
library(PDtoolkit)
library(rpart)
```

Then, letâ€™s import and inspect the structued of the modeling data set -
`loans`.

``` r
data(loans)
str(loans)
```

    ## 'data.frame':    1000 obs. of  21 variables:
    ##  $ Creditability                    : num  0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 ...
    ##  $ Account Balance                  : chr  "1" "1" "2" "1" ...
    ##  $ Duration of Credit (month)       : num  18 9 12 12 12 10 8 6 18 24 ...
    ##  $ Payment Status of Previous Credit: chr  "4" "4" "2" "4" ...
    ##  $ Purpose                          : chr  "2" "0" "9" "0" ...
    ##  $ Credit Amount                    : num  1049 2799 841 2122 2171 ...
    ##  $ Value Savings/Stocks             : chr  "1" "1" "2" "1" ...
    ##  $ Length of current employment     : chr  "2" "3" "4" "3" ...
    ##  $ Instalment per cent              : chr  "4" "2" "2" "3" ...
    ##  $ Sex & Marital Status             : chr  "2" "3" "2" "3" ...
    ##  $ Guarantors                       : chr  "1" "1" "1" "1" ...
    ##  $ Duration in Current address      : chr  "4" "2" "4" "2" ...
    ##  $ Most valuable available asset    : chr  "2" "1" "1" "1" ...
    ##  $ Age (years)                      : num  21 36 23 39 38 48 39 40 65 23 ...
    ##  $ Concurrent Credits               : chr  "3" "3" "3" "3" ...
    ##  $ Type of apartment                : chr  "1" "1" "1" "1" ...
    ##  $ No of Credits at this Bank       : chr  "1" "2" "1" "2" ...
    ##  $ Occupation                       : chr  "3" "3" "2" "2" ...
    ##  $ No of dependents                 : chr  "1" "2" "1" "2" ...
    ##  $ Telephone                        : chr  "1" "1" "1" "1" ...
    ##  $ Foreign Worker                   : chr  "1" "1" "1" "2" ...
